#summary Configuring J2EE Diffable for use in web applications.
#labels Phase-Deploy

= Contents =
  # [WikiJ2eeDiffableConfigure#Importing Importing]
  # [WikiJ2eeDiffableConfigure#Configuring_web.xml Configuring web.xml]
  # [WikiJ2eeDiffableConfigure#Configuration_Options Configuration Options]

== Importing ==

To use Diffable in a J2EE web application, simply add the diffable-0.1.jar to the web application's WEB-INF/lib directory along with the other necessary third party jars.  The Diffable library provides the following features:
  * Custom tags for referencing resources that should be served using Diffable.
  * Automatic management of resource versions and the ability to generate deltas between versions.
  * Ability to serve wrapped Diffable resources. (Currently only Javascript)
  * Ability to integrate implementations of interfaces without modifying the source.

== Configuring web.xml ==

The Diffable library requires that certain modifications be made to the application's web.xml file.

=== Resource Folders ===
First, a context parameter, "ResourceFolders," must be created.  This parameter contains the locations of folders containing resources to be managed by Diffable.  The following code snippet illustrates:
{{{
  <context-param>
      <description>
          Location of properties provided to Guice for loading information and
          implementation overrides for the overall Diffable application.
      </description>
      <param-name>ResourceFolders</param-name>
      <param-value>WEB-INF/javascript</param-value>
  </context-param>
}}}
In this case, when Diffable starts up, it will check the web application's WEB-INF/javascript folder for resources to manage.  It will also periodically check this folder for changes to those resources and generate deltas when need be.  

Multiple paths, separated by commas, can be provided via the param-value:
{{{
  <param-value>WEB-INF/javascript, WEB-INF/css</param-value>
}}}

Also, absolute paths residing outside of the web application can be provided by using a preceding slash:
{{{
  <param-value>/home/apache/resources/javascript</param-value>
}}}

=== Application Listener ===
Second, the DiffableListener must be added as a listener servlet so that it can perform initialization functions when the application starts.  This can be accomplished with the following changes to web.xml:
{{{
  <listener>
    <display-name>DiffableListener</display-name>
    <listener-class>
      com.google.diffable.listeners.DiffableListener
    </listener-class>
  </listener>
}}}
Upon start-up, the DiffableListener will initialize a resource manager and monitor the resources residing in the designated resource folders.  It will also load any configuration options provided by DiffableConfigProperties.

===Diffable Configuration Properties===
Because Diffable makes use of the Google Guice dependency injection framework, many of the options used at run time can be overwritten by defining a properties file in the web.xml. The use of a diffable configuration file is optional, and if not provided, sensible defaults are used for all options.  To define a properties file the following context-param must be added to the web.xml:
{{{
  <context-param>
      <description>
          Location of properties provided to Guice for loading information and
          implementation overrides for the current resource manager strategy.
      </description>
      <param-name>DiffableConfigProperties</param-name>
      <param-value>WEB-INF/diffable.properties</param-value>
  </context-param>
}}}
As with the ResourceFolders parameter, the value of this context param can be either relative or absolute depending on whether the path is preceded by a slash.  Unlike the resource folders, there can be only one path defined.